When I set off alone on my bike for the first time, without a GPS, without a plan, just my bike, the tarmac and me, it was a feeling of pure freedom. I was able to distil two reasons for this: On one hand, up to this day, I had always ridden with my boyfriend, so I had strong guidance I could rely on. Now I could and, above all, had to be able to rely on myself. I realized, I am enough. To myself I can be both: good company and strong guidance. On the other hand, it was a new sense of empowerment, to claim the streets for myself, as a young woman. I was suddenly faster than the male gazes that would have hit me in such a short and tight clothing, the sound of my freehub being louder than their whistles. 
    I preferred to ride alone for a long time. At some point, I also enjoyed riding in mixed groups. I’ve learned that although I can trust myself (and my boyfriend) blindly, that doesn’t apply to all fellow cyclists: While I enjoyed the social aspect, I was nervously thinking for everyone in the group, constantly assessing risks and predicting behaviors.
    I didn’t imagine that I would also be confronted with so-called “mental load”, i.e. invisible mental work that is often done by women, in connection with my favorite hobby. (Because I know that some men will feel targeted and generalized by my words, I do want to emphasize, that “not all men” unknowingly hand over their thinking work to women and that I really enjoy riding with considerate and cautious groups of men)
Nevertheless, I experienced an epiphany on my first rides in women-only groups: everyone is mindful, the risky situations quasi nonexistent. If someone falls behind, everyone waits as a natural reaction without anyone having to remind the others: When the traffic light turns yellow, you don’t accelerate and thereby pressuring those behind you to either break the law or fall behind. You stop together, give a damn about the pace exchange a few nice words and make sure everyone is having fun. 
I believe that if we take care of each other, we will ultimately become stronger. And there’s nothing I enjoy more than claiming our space on the roads with a strong group and thus sharing the feeling of empowerment I felt after my first solo ride.